# Speech sequencing in the human precentral gyrus

Code to recreate the figures from Liu*, Zhao*, Hullett, and Chang. "Speech  
sequencing in the human precentral  gyrus", _Nature Human Behaviour_, 2025.

## Installing the Python environment
An environment with all relevant dependencies can be installed using 
Anaconda. In a terminal, use the following command:
```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
Once created, the environment must be activated to properly run the figure 
code. Activate the environment with the following command:
```bash
conda activate sylseq
```

Environment creation was tested and verified on a MacBook Pro running 
Sonoma 14.6.1 and using Anaconda 24.5.0.

## Downloading relevant data files
Datasets needed to generate the figures can be accessed and downloaded via 
Zenodo [10.5281/zenodo.15346719](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15346719).

Once downloaded, place the files in a folder titled `data` within this 
repository. This repository should now have the following directory 
organization:
```
Liu2025_Sequencing
└───data
└───figures
└───imaging
└───sylseq_paper
```

## Generating figures
Figures can be generated by running the figure notebooks in `figures` (e.g. 
through Jupyter). Notebooks are typically organized by processing data, 
defining functions for each figure panel, then assembling the overall 
figure. If there are supplementary figures associated with main text 
figures, those figures will be at the end of the notebook (and are noted in 
the filename of the notebook).
